---
layout: post
title: My setup
publish: true
---

This blog is generated by [jekyll][jekyll], backed by a simple Apache
config on the server side. One of the nice things about the site being
statically generated is site is that I don't have to fiddle with cgi
scripts, content handlers and whatnot. Also, there's no comment spam
to manage; thank God for that.

I edit each entry in [emacs][emacs] (usually on the train, as that
seems to be the only time I have for myself nowadays), run it through
a local jekyll instance to see how it looks, then check it into a
[git][git] repo, which serves two purposes. First, it provides version
control for all my content (and I'm really anal about version
control). Second, by pushing the changes to another repo on my web
host, a [post-update hook][deployment] is triggered which runs jekyll
and regenerates the site content with my updates.

I am not a designer, and I don't pretend to be one. Time was when I
actually enjoyed tweaking CSS and spent hours obsessing over pixel
placement, semantic markup and all that jazz. The results however,
were never that great, and I can't be arsed with that
anymore. Instead, I rely on the [Blueprint CSS][blueprint] framework
to provide a reasonable layout and typesetting that works in most
browsers. It's not perfect, and I don't get to have complete control
over every single pixel on screen, but I've found that I don't really
want that anyway. This is good enough, and if I get to spend next to
no time designing and tweaking, great!

Lastly, here's a picture of Yojimbo, the World's Cutest Cat:

![Yojimbo](http://farm2.static.flickr.com/1347/829207928_ba01bd66b3.jpg)

[git]:http://git-scm.com/
[jekyll]:http://github.com/mojombo/jekyll
[emacs]:http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs
[deployment]:http://matedriven.com.ar/2009/04/28/using-git-to-maintain-your-blog.html
[blueprint]:http://blueprintcss.org




