---
layout: post
title: NoLOG
---

Java logging is fundamentally broken. This is hard fact, not a point
of view. Logging is broken, and has been for years.

How is it broken, you ask? Let me count the ways:

* I've had application servers die on me because a logging framework
  was complaining over something. This shouldn't happen. Ever. 
* One of our old production servers is running JBoss4 and has been
  running for five years now. About two years ago Log4J started giving
  strange error messages that has something to do with class
  loading. I have no idea if we even changed anything, it just stopped
  working.
* We switched to Glassfish after that. Now, glassfish is a terrific
  app server, but it insists on using the JDK logging
  facilities. Since we use Log4J internally that means everything gets
  mangled through `System.out`, then logged with a severity of INFO
  regardless of the original severity. Glassfish also uses a really
  ugly multi-line logging format as default. I'd really like to change
  that if I could only figure out how.
* Also, we have three Glassfish servers. Two of them write their logs
  like they're supposed to. On the third machine (identical setup as
  far as I can tell) it stops logging right after boot. No indication
  of what's going on, just silence.
* Speaking of JDK logging, what's up with the logging levels? I dig
  SEVERE, WARNING, INFO; they're all right. Maybe even CONFIG. But
  FINE, FINER and FINEST? That's just stupid.
* And don't get me started about Commons Logging. The problems with
  this sorry piece of software [is well documented][cl]. 
* I have never gotten Log4j to work with Jetty, and not for lack of
  trying.
* I wanted to deploy [Nexus][nexus] (an otherwise excellent product)
  to a Glassfish server. Shouldn't be a problem, right? Just a
  standard WAR in a standard Servlet container, right? Nope, couldn't
  be done because of serious bugs in the logging code. I now have to
  run Nexus in its own container on a different port. This is frankly
  ridiculous. Why should the implementors choice of logging framework
  dictate what web cointainer I can run?

In short, I have spent way to much time just getting simple logging
working through the years, and now I've had just about enough. Think
of the man-hours lost, what we could be doing instead of fiddling with
`log4j.properties` and `commons-logging.properties`! Why do we put up
with this?

The basic principles of logging are sound, but it's too late. There
are simply [too many logging frameworks][wlog] out there, each one
making the situation a little bit worse. Commons Logging was bad
enough. Log4J fractured the market, and Sun cemented the situation by
introducing the badly designed JDK logging package. 

[Logging meta-frameworks][slf4j] isn't really helping the
situation. The ship has sailed. We don't need *more* frameworks, we
need less of them. The ideal situation would be exactly *one* logging
framework (that doesn't suck), that would be the obvious choice for
most projects. As it stands now all open source projects use a
different one, each incompatible with each others but offering
'helpful' and 'seamless' integration that never seems quite to work.

Last time I checked the dependencies for our main webapp at work
included multiple versions of Log4J, Commons Logging, Slf4J, and
problably Logback and a few others I've missed as well. Have fun
working out the classloader issues there!

## An interim solution: WoodChipper

I dreamt this up at work the other day, and this is all purely
hypothetical, but I do believe someone should make something like this. 

Anyway, *WoodChipper* (or whatever it will be called, I choose the
name since it is a machine that disintegrates logs) is a java utility
that goes through all the jar files on your class path and uses
sophisticated byte code manipulation to replace all references to
Commons Logging, Log4J, JDK logging, etc. with
`System.out.println()`. Ideally this could be done at runtime, or as a
maven plugin.

I know some people would argue it'd better to make it all
[Slf4J][slf4j] instead, but then you're kind of missing the
point. I've had enough of logging. I don't want to spend another
minute configuring a logging framework, and I don't see why I should
have to. I'm declaring logging bancruptcy.

Writing to `stdout` isn't bad. At least the results can be piped,
greped and redirected using standard Unix tools.

## Is it time for a NoLOG license?

Today I started thinking that maybe what we need is a new sort of Open
Source license, kind of like an inverted GPL. It would state that
you're free to use my code pretty much anyway you like, just as long
as the finished product does not depend on a logging
framework. Any transgressions would be punishable by catapult.

Extreme measures, perhaps. But if that's what it takes to get people
to stop using Commons Logging, it may well be worth it in the end.

[wlog]:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_Logging_Frameworks
[slf4j]:http://slf4j.org
[cl]:http://articles.qos.ch/thinkAgain.html
[nih]:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Not_Invented_Here
[nexus]:http://nexus.sonatype.org/
