---
title: Inspiration-Driven Development
layout: post
--- 

I want to talk a little about inspiration. 

The act of programming is of a very creative nature. Abstract concepts
like data structures and algorithms get crystalized to code, seemingly
created *ex nihilo*. Where first there was nothing, there is now a
file of source code. 

Writing code can be an exhausting occupation, and sometimes
frustrating. It can wear you out emotionally and physically. But when
you're in the zone, just going with it and letting code flow from your
fingers, there's nothing quite like it. I once tried to describe the
allure of coding as *"Kind of a cross between knitting and
crossword-solving"*, by which I mean a highly intellectual activity
that's also half handicraft. My girlfriend, both a crossword
enthusiast and a needlework afficionado, understood completely.

Unfortunatly, I find myself spending far less time doing actual
development work than I'd like to, and I think this is a common
complaint among programmers.

## Real Life

The company I work for employs about 60 people, but only five of us
work for the IT department. So, we're a small team that are expected
to do everything from refilling printer cartridges to maintaining and
architecting the J2EE behemoth that is our web site. My business card
says 'Systems Developer', but in reality a large part of my job seems
to be to figure out what my job is. I do sysadmin stuff, Java coding,
CSS troubleshooting, customer support, system integration, even
business development on occasion. There's a lot of non-programming
stuff going on, I get a lot of email, and I tend to spend a substatial
amount of time on the web, keeping up with current events.

This used to bug me a lot. I resented the constant interruptions, the
emails, the meetings. *"Why pay me to work here when you won't let me
do my job?"* I used to mutter. I loathed myself for wasting company
time surfing the web. The stress was getting to me. But lately I've
come to realize one important thing:

> Even the non-coding activities are a part of my job as a
> developer.

Listening to suggestions, responding to criticism and above all,
managing expectations, is crucial. Reading tech blogs is a part of my
job, and so is taking a break to slack off or go for a walk if I need
to. Because my job isn't to just sit in front of a computer and
produce code. It is to ensure that the systems we deliver are as good
as they're ever going to be. 

I know some of my (non-IT) co-workers would be suprised by
this. *"Surfing the web a part of the job? Really, that's just a poor
excuse for slacking off. That's like stealing from the Company!"* 

Just kidding, I have wonderful co-workers. But here's the thing:

> The best coding happens in the brain, long before you actually
> sit down to write.

I'll be so bold as to claim that the time you're spending at the
keyboard is your *least* creative period. There's too much
distractions, too many things happening. You get too invested in what
you're building to think deep and hard about the underlying
problem. That's when you need to take a break, step away from the
computer and go do something else. 

## Pro Tip

Here's a tip: my favourite way of solving particularly hairy coding
problems is to go sit down somewhere with my moleskine and my
favourite pen ([Pilot G2 0.7mm][g2], since you ask). I try to write
down the problem as clear as I possibly can, then go about describing
ways of tackling it. Usually I start with some obvious solution, then
write down the reason that it won't work. Then I come up with
something else, then something else. And then suddenly the solution
presents itself, like magic.

This method has worked, without fail, every time I've used it. But you
can't cheat. You need to get away from the computer, and you need to
write things down. By hand. I don't know why, but I suspect the act of
writing activates a part of your brain you wouldn't otherwise be
using.

## Inspiration

I've found that when the stars are aligned correctly I'm at my coding
peak between 3pm and 7pm. There seems to be very little I can do about
that; earlier in the day my thoughts are too scattered for me to be of
any use, and later in the evening I get too hungry to focus on
anything but dinner. The sad part about this is that when I'm not
working from home I have to leave the office at 5pm in order to catch
my train. That leaves about 2 hours of productive time a day. 

I've come to accept that, and started structuring my day to accomodate
this fact instead of fighting it. Before lunch I respond to mail, make
notes, read blogs, get the facebooking out of the way, try to check
out any bug report we've received, return calls to customers who are
having problems, etc. Basically, I'm trying to remove all the
obstacles that will impede my progress when the gears in my brain
finally click and I can get to work.

Some days that doesn't happen. The magic is gone, and it feels like I
can't get *anything* done. That's okay too. There's always going to be
days like that, and it usually happens when I'm stressed out or
tired. Those days I do stuff that requires as little mental effort as
possible. Simple code refactoring, perhaps. Following up on
email. Going through old stuff on the todo list that's been nagging
me. That is, ensuring that when inspiration returns, I will be ready
for it.

[g2]:http://www.cultpens.com/acatalog/Pilot_G2.html
