---
layout: post
title: Going Remote
published: true
---

A week from now the movers will come and stuff all our belongings into
a big ol' truck. We will get in the car, wave goodbye to friends and
family and drive north for two days. There, in
[a small town you've probably never heard of][ojebyn], lies our new
home.

Naturally, this is quite a scary proposition for a city boy. I
honestly don't know if I'll make it up there. But I was given a great
opportunity, and I had to at least try. Besides, life in the city was
getting a bit _too_ convenient, if you know what I mean? It was time
for a change.

Fortunately, my employer was keen to keep me on, which means that
starting two weeks from now I'll be working 100% remotely. This is a
big change, and I hope it will work out for everyone involved. Our
team has started using [PivotalTracker][pt] and [Campfire][cfire], and
the overall impression is good so far. However, I will be working from
my home office, and I just hope the cabin fever doesn't get
unbearable.

Another big change is that I'll just be working 80%. Living in the
northern parts of Sweden is pretty cheap, and after doing the math we
decided that it wasn't really necessary for me to work full time
anymore. Instead, I'll try to spend the extra time on fun personal
projects, without having to worry about them earning me any money
(although it would be nice if they did). 

I've been longing to give game development a shot for a long time now,
and this is kind of my big chance. For a guy with my background the
obvious choice seems to be mobile game development with Android, and I
already have some ideas to work on. I'm also really intrigued by what
can be done with [Common Lisp][lispgames], which I believe could make
for a great interactive game environment. However, my first
goal is to finish my [Inform 7 game][i7game], hopefully being able to
enter it into [IFComp 2011][ifcomp]. Watch this space.

You know, I have a good feeling about this.

[ojebyn]:http://sv.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C3%96jebyn
[pt]:http://www.pivotaltracker.com
[cfire]:http://campirenow.com
[ifcomp]:http://www.ifcomp.org/
[i7game]:{% post_url 2011-02-11-fun-with-inform7 %}
[lispgames]:http://lispgamesdev.blogspot.com/
