---
title: Nine Months of Working Remote
layout: post
published: true
---

After a routine software update yesterday, my work laptop suddenly
refused to boot. That was a bit scary, and left me stressed out. You
see, I'm working remote, and the rest of our IT department is located
about 1000 km away. Which pretty much meant _"You're on your own,
kid. If you can't solve this yourself, then you won't have a
workstation for a few days."_

This is the first time, however, that I actually had to reflect on my
working conditions as a remote worker. I have a home office set up,
complete with a stand-up desk, a [Fatboy bean bag][fatboy], and
multi-function printer. I do the lion part of my work on my laptop,
hooked up to the compay VPN. Inter-team communication is done using
[Campfire][cf] and daily telephone meetings. In many ways, this is
just like working at the office, except a) I can blast whatever I want
on the stereo, and b) I don't get dragged into meetings as often as I
used to.

Working alone does mean that I'm not just a developer anymore; I'm
also responsible for first-line support for my own equipment. If the
wifi goes down, no-one will fix it except me. If the laptop bombs out,
I'll either have to solve it myself, or find some way of setting up a
temporary workspace on one of the ancient machines I have lying about
until the company can send me a replacement.

Apart from that, I have no complaints about working alone. When I tell
people about my situation, they usually go _"Aaah, but you've got to
have such self dicipline to be working from home."_ The assumption
being, that as soon as you don't have someone looking over your
shoulder, you will immediately revert to spending your working time
goofing off. I don't get that. When I'm working, I'm working. Same as
if I were at the office. And there's nothing special about me. In
fact, I'm a pretty lazy guy.

I got the laptop working again, after an agonizing hour of recovery
mode reboots, random fiddling with the BIOS and finally reinstalling
the X server and proprietary NVIDIA drivers.

[fatboy]:http://www.fatboy.com/shop/product/the-original-lime-green
[cf]:http://campfirenow.com
