---
layout: post
title: "GOTY"
date: 2013-07-22 17:13
comments: true
categories: gaming
---

I finished [Fire Emblem: Awakening][awakening] yesterday, and let me
tell you: that is one fine game. My first impulse was starting over and
playing it again, only with a strict 'no reset' policy (I admit
[I cheated][coping] a bit here and there the first time
around). There's also a comprehensive selection of DLC and post-game
content that will keep me occupied for quite a while.

I love this series, and played the hell out of both
[Fire Emblem][emblem] and [The Sacred Stones][stones] back in the day
on my GameBoy Micro. {"These games are perfectly polished
little pearls."} The animations are silky smooth, the story and
characterization is surprisingly deep, and the combat system is as
engaging as it is unforgiving.

Compared to the older games in the series I felt that the story of
_Awakening_ was a little meh. Not bad, just a bit too generic fantasy
for my taste. As soon as you heard _Grima, the Fell Dragon_ mentioned
in the beginning you pretty much knew where the story was
headed. Granted, there is some very interesting stuff happening before
that, but overall I wasn't too impressed.

However, gameplay-wise the polish has been taken to a new
level. Characters will help each others out in combat as long as they
stand next to each other, so you have to consider who to put
where. You can also let two characters pair up on the same square,
which makes them stronger and also provides shelter for weak units
like healers and fliers when there are bowmen about. Another big thing
is the abundance of disposable enemies that start popping up a bit
into the game. This makes levelling up weak characters a lot more
doable than in earlier games, and you don't have to worry about
'wasting' XP on characters with a low payoff (i.e. Marcus in
[Fire Emblem][emblem]).

This was a lot of fun. We'll se what happens when I get my hands on
[Etrian Odyssey 4][etrian], but right now Fire Emblem is _Game of the
Year_ for me.

[awakening]:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fire_emblem_awakening
[coping]:{% post_url 2013-07-07-fire-emblem-coping-with-loss %}
[etrian]:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Etrian_Odyssey_IV:_Legends_of_the_Titan
[stones]:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fire_Emblem:_The_Sacred_Stones
[emblem]:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fire_Emblem_(video_game)
